Transforms and Transitions with CSS3

Transform property - translate, rotate, scale, skew any element on the page. 

Manipulate an element's appearance using transform functions. 

Translation: 
allow you to move elements left, right, up or down. These functions behave similarly to position:relative;
when declaring top and left, moving up, down etc.

translated elements can only be moved relative to its current position.

translate(x, y) function moves an element x from the left, and y from the top:

transform: translate(45px, -45px);

can also use translateX or translateY of you just want to move in one direction.

scale
transform: scale(1.5, 0.25);

transforming does not cause a reflow. Can be good or bad, depending on your needs. 

Ordering transforms matter. 
  If you rotate before translating, the translate direction will be on the rotated axis. 


Transitions

Transitions allow the values of CSS properties to change over time, essentially providing similarly
simple animations. Ex: if a link changes color on hover,  you can have it gradually fade
from one color to another instead of a sudden change. 
 - if the browser lacks support for transitions, the change will be immediate, which is fine too

Transitions are declared along with the regular styles on an element. 
Rather than writing out an animation in JavaScript, you can simply switch a property value
and rely on the browser to do all the heavy lifting.

* Here are the steps to create a simple transition using only CSS:

* Declare the original state of the element in the default style declaration.

* Declare the final state of your transitioned element; for example, a :hover state.

* Include the transition functions in your default style declaration using the 
transition properties, including: transition-property, transition-duration, 
transition-timing-function, and transition-delay. 

the transition is declared in the default or originating state.

The list of properties that can be animated is found 
at https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_animated_properties.